=== TEXT EXTRACTION REPORT ===
Source: C:\Users\dhyan\Projects_All\Personal\UC-Berkley-GovernanceAI\trial3\data\Singapore National AI Strategy2.0-2023 (2).pdf
Extraction Date: 2025-07-12 19:46:32
Content Type: pdf
Detected Language: en
Confidence Score: 0.95
Processing Time: 65.35 seconds
Metadata: {
  "pages": 68,
  "tables": [],
  "images": 19
}
==================================================

=== EXTRACTED TEXT ===
--- Page 1 ---
AI for the Public Good
For Singapore and the World

--- Page 2 ---
Cover image generated by Adobe Firefly

--- Page 3 ---
CONTENTS | 1
Contents
03Foreword
05Introduction
13National AI Strategy 2.0
SYSTEM 1
Research Industry Government17Activity Drivers
SYSTEM 2
Placemaking Talent Capabilities33People & Communities
SYSTEM 3
Trusted Environment Compute Data47Infrastructure & Environment
Leader in Thought and Action
65A Whole-of-Nation MovementOur Vision and Goals Our Plan

--- Page 5 ---
FOREWORD | 3
2023 is a landmark year for Artificial Intelligence (AI).  
Recent advances, especially in Generative AI, have opened doors to new possibilities. The 
most powerful AI models provide human-like intelligence, or a close proxy of it, to do 
anything from clinical diagnoses to self-driving cars. 
These advances have also precipitated many important conversations – about the 
potential of AI, its harms, and even on what it means to be human.
Singapore believes in the transformative potential of AI. Our second National AI Strategy, 
or NAIS 2.0, represents Singapore’s commitment to realise the benefits of AI, and to create 
exciting new opportunities.  It outlines our vision for Singapore to be a place where AI 
serves as a force for good, and where we harness AI to uplift and empower our people 
and businesses.  
Singapore may be a small island state, but we have big dreams and plans. We will participate 
fully in AI research and deployment, to do things that were not possible before, and bring 
benefits to ourselves and others outside Singapore. Hence, our vision for NAIS 2.0 is to 
achieve AI for the Public Good, for Singapore and the World. 
This report spells out how we will achieve our vision. It sets out our plans to build a 
thriving AI ecosystem; develop our workforce to take on new opportunities; provide enough 
infrastructural capacity to achieve our ambitions; and foster a trusted environment that 
protects users and facilitates innovation. 
In the end, our plans are only as good as our collective ability to implement them.  That’s 
why we welcome all stakeholders and partners to join us in this shared endeavour.  Let us 
work together to realise the full potential of AI in our lives. 
LAWRENCE WONG
Deputy Prime Minister & Minister for FinanceForewo rd

--- Page 7 ---
INTRODUCTION | 5
Since the release of ChatGPT by OpenAI on 30 November 2022, Artificial Intelligence 
(AI)1 has gone mainstream. Recent breakthroughs, particularly those in the realm 
of Generative AI, have resulted in AI proliferating quickly. AI is moving beyond 
its traditional, narrow approaches, towards more general, almost human-like 
characteristics. The ability of ChatGPT to draft, depict, translate, understand 
context, and provide seemingly meaningful responses to our questions, has 
captured the imagination of not just scientists and experts, but all of us. For 
governments, these developments have raised new and critical questions around 
the risks and responsibilities associated with the development and use of such a 
powerful technology, even as AI continues to reinforce and remind us of what it 
means to be human.
In Singapore, where the vast majority of our people already frequently interact 
with digital technologies to transact with the Government and businesses, and are 
also digitally engaged at work, AI has been both commonplace and an uncommon 
force. Introduction
1 AI refers to a set of capabilities through which computer systems can demonstrate human-
like behaviour and complete tasks which typically require human intelligence. It is considered a 
general-purpose technology which can be applied across a wide range of sectors. Some of its varied 
applications include advanced web search, recommendation and decision systems, advanced 
problem-solving, understanding speech and natural language, perception (for applications like 
facial recognition, image labelling, or autonomous vehicles ), and Generative AI tools (including 
Large Language Models ) that can produce various types of content, including text, images, audio, 
and synthetic data.

--- Page 8 ---
| INTRODUCTION 6
Fundamentally, Singapore believes that:
 ▶ AI can be a potent force for good, to uplift human potential :
  ◼ AI is a technology that will transform cognitive and physical tasks . We 
expect its benefits to be immense, making today’s jobs easier, while 
bringing within reach activities that were previously computationally 
impossible.
  ◼ This requires us to steer AI for the Public Good . We must harness AI 
in a sustainable way to create positive impact – for new opportunities, 
better jobs, and safer, more meaningful connections.
 ▶ AI is strategically important. We must invest in it to :
  ◼ Unlock the next frontier of economic growth . We must master AI 
to overcome our labour and productivity challenges. This requires 
investments in our people, enterprises, and digital infrastructure, so 
that we can create new jobs and participate in industries of the future.
  ◼ Address risks from the potential abuse and mismanagement of AI . These 
include the misuse of AI to amplify harms (e.g. scams, cyberattacks, and 
mis/disinformation) across society, especially toward vulnerable groups.

--- Page 9 ---
INTRODUCTION | 7
Singapore is not starting from scratch . Some earlier moves in AI include:
 ▶ National AI Strategy . In 2019, Singapore was one of the first countries to 
introduce a National AI Strategy. We embarked on National AI Projects in 
areas like Education, Healthcare, and Safety & Security, and invested in 
enablers to strengthen our ecosystem.
 ▶ Dedicated investments in AI Research and Development (R&D) . We have 
committed more than S$500 million through AI Singapore (AISG) under the 
Research, Innovation and Enterprise (RIE) 2020 and 2025 plans.
 ▶ AI Governance . Singapore launched the world’s first Model AI Governance 
Framework in 2019. In 2022, we also launched AI Verify, an AI governance 
testing framework and software toolkit, and made it open source for 
developers in June 2023.

--- Page 10 ---
| INTRODUCTION 8
These early investments have borne fruit.  We have:
 ▶ Built strong foundations for our AI ecosystem . Singapore is well-regarded, 
ranking among the top 10 in the world by several international metrics.2  
Over 80 active AI research faculty, 150 AI R&D and product teams, and 1,100 
AI start-ups call Singapore home.
 ▶ Harnessed AI to improve Singaporeans’ lives . Today, AI powers many public 
services, such as adaptive learning systems in our schools, and chronic 
health management systems in our hospitals. We also use AI to support 
immigration and customs clearance, and to detect and deter online scams.
 ▶ Forged international partnerships . Singapore is recognised as an active 
contributor to global AI discourse, spanning issues from innovation to 
governance. We advocate for the responsible and ethical use of AI. We 
are active participants in multi-stakeholder platforms such as the Global 
Partnership on AI (GPAI), the World Economic Forum (WEF) AI Governance 
Alliance, and most recently the United Nations (UN) High-Level Advisory 
Body on AI. Singapore’s initiatives, like AI Verify, have been welcomed as 
pragmatic contributions to the growing body of work on AI governance.
2 For instance, Singapore ranks 1st in per capita terms in the Stanford Global AI Vibrancy Index 
(2021); 2nd in the Oxford Insights Government AI Index (2021); and 3rd in the Tortoise Media Global 
AI Index (2022).

--- Page 11 ---
INTRODUCTION | 9
The recent breakthroughs in AI demand a renewed focus by Singapore to refine 
our national strategies for AI :
 ▶ Greater capabilities . AI is now more powerful and accessible. We therefore 
need to work with producers and users of AI in a more concerted manner, 
because responsible development and deployment do not happen by chance.
 ▶ Greater concerns . There are growing concerns over the safety and security 
risks of AI, particularly Generative AI models. These range from fears over 
malicious attacks on AI models, to the current inscrutability of large language 
models (LLMs), which calls into question the validity, credibility, and legality 
of their output. Such concerns have garnered attention from many around 
the world.
There are also new competitive realities around AI :
 
 ▶ Resources and talent for AI are scarce . These are concentrated within a few 
companies and countries, intensifying economic competition, as well as 
geostrategic and resilience risks.
 ▶ Other smaller countries are also moving quickly to attract AI investments 
and talent . While acquisitions for AI may be costly, they can confer enduring 
value and deepen capabilities, if properly integrated within the ecosystem.
Against this backdrop, Singapore aspires to be a pace-setter – a global leader in 
choice AI areas, that are economically impactful and serve the Public Good .

--- Page 12 ---
| INTRODUCTION 10
We will therefore make three shifts from our first National AI Strategy:
From Opportunity to Necessity . People “must know” AI, not just see it 
as a “good to have”. We need both technical experts and savvy users to 
maximise AI’s potential for Singapore.
From Local to Global . Our people and businesses should operate with the 
ambition to be world-leading in AI. Singapore should be well-connected 
to global innovation networks, working with the best to overcome complex 
challenges surrounding AI today (e.g. energy, data, and ethics). Singapore 
must contribute to AI breakthroughs and products that the world values.
From Projects to Systems . For AI to have widespread and positive impact 
on our economy and society, Singapore has to move beyond flagship 
National AI Projects. We will take a systems approach, bringing together 
stakeholders within and outside Singapore to add to our resources, 
capabilities, and infrastructure, accelerate the exchange of ideas, and 
administer AI-enabled solutions at scale.


--- Page 13 ---
INTRODUCTION | 11
We believe that Singapore can and will succeed, given (a) our position as a trusted 
global partner and major business hub, (b) our pro-innovation and business-
friendly operating environment, (c) our strong knowledge base and capable 
workforce, and (d) our successful track record in transforming our economy. We 
are a nation of industrious people, known for being reliable and trustworthy, and 
in whose hands AI may flourish.
It is with these convictions that we set out Singapore’s second National AI 
Strategy (NAIS 2.0) , which will also drive the next bound of our Smart Nation 
journey.  Working together with our international network of friends and partners, 
we shall use AI to be a force for good, generating new economic opportunities 
and improving societies everywhere.

--- Page 15 ---
NATIONAL AI STRATEGY 2.0 | 13
National AI 
Strategy 2.0
Developed through extensive engagements, NAIS 2.0 starts with the conviction 
that we must do our utmost to harness AI for the Public Good, for Singapore and 
the World . Singapore will be a place where AI can:
 ▶ Address the needs and challenges of our time . For example, in areas of global 
importance such as population health and climate change.
 ▶ Be the great equaliser . We shall uplift and empower our people and 
businesses, equipping them with the capabilities and resources to thrive in 
an AI-enabled future.
NAIS 2.0 seeks to attain the  twin goals  of:Our Vision and Goals
Excellence . We will selectively develop peaks of excellence in AI, to 
advance the field and maximise value creation.
Empowerment . We will raise up individuals, businesses, and communities 
to use AI with confidence, discernment, and trust.


--- Page 16 ---
| NATIONAL AI STRATEGY 2.0 14
To achieve our vision and goals, we will direct efforts under NAIS 2.0 toward three 
Systems , working through 10 Enablers .
 ▶ System 1: Activity Drivers (Enablers: Industry, Government, Research) . 
Industry, Government, and public research performers have deep technical 
capabilities that can be applied to deliver value. We need to orchestrate 
them around meaningful use cases and problem statements to transform 
our economy and society.
 ▶ System 2: People & Communities (Enablers: Talent, Capabilities, Placemaking) . 
We will attract more top-tier researchers and engineers to work with and 
from Singapore. More of our technology workforce should work to scale 
novel AI solutions, that form part of the toolkit which a confident base of 
enterprises and workers can use.
 ▶ System 3: Infrastructure & Environment (Enablers: Compute, Data, Trusted 
Environment, Leader in Thought and Action) . We will ensure that Singapore 
hosts the necessary infrastructure and provides a trusted environment for 
AI innovation. This will make us a credible leader and preferred site for AI 
development, deployment, and adoption.
This strategy statement outlines 15 Actions  that Singapore will undertake across 
these systems and enablers, to support our ambitions over the next 3-5 years. We 
will continually review these Actions to respond to fast-moving developments in 
AI, across domains.Our Plans

--- Page 17 ---
NATIONAL AI STRATEGY 2.0 | 15


--- Page 19 ---
SYSTEM 1: ACTIVITY DRIVERS | 17
Activity DriversSYSTEM 1
Industry, Government, and Research drive AI activity, from basic science to product 
R&D and adoption. Together, they help Singapore leverage the rapid innovation 
cycles in AI for the economy and our society.
Singapore has built up a strong and promising base of AI capabilities, which we 
should harness to significantly uplift the broader ecosystem. We will encourage 
greater experimentation and collaboration, focusing on interesting and impactful 
challenges, to reap greater benefits from AI.
AI TrailblazersFeature Story
In July 2023, the Ministry of Communications and Information (MCI), Digital Industry 
Singapore (DISG), Smart Nation and Digital Government Office (SNDGO), together with 
Google Cloud, launched AI Trailblazers. This rapid prototyping initiative was a world’s 
first, giving businesses and government agencies free access to Google Cloud’s AI toolsets 
for up to three months, with the aim of generating 100 Generative AI use cases in 100 
days, across the private and public sectors.
Mrs. Josephine Teo , Minister for Communications and 
Information, at the launch event for the AI Trailblazers initiative 
at the Google Asia Pacific campus.By working with the best-in-class to provide 
an innovation sandbox for AI development, 
Singapore was not only able to spark more 
experimentation, but also gave many more 
business owners the confidence to invest 
further resources once they were able to see 
the potential of AI in delivering their business 
objectives.

--- Page 20 ---
| SYSTEM 1: ACTIVITY DRIVERS 18
We shall steer AI toward developing select peaks of excellence , which can deliver 
outsized impact to Singapore and the lives of Singaporeans.
 ▶ AI in Domains . We will encourage AI innovation and adoption in key domains, 
including:
  ◼ Leading Economic Sectors , which form a sizeable share of Singapore’s real 
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and for which AI innovation could catalyse 
the next bound of economic growth. Examples include Manufacturing, 
Financial Services, Transport & Logistics, and Biomedical Sciences.
  ◼ Smart Nation Priorities , where AI assists our national development, 
and unlocks new value propositions for social impact. These include 
Healthcare, Education & Manpower, Trust & Safety, and Public Service 
Delivery.
 ▶ Cross-cutting Capabilities . We will invest in cross-cutting areas that can 
accelerate the development and deployment of AI solutions across all 
domains, including:
  ◼ AI for Business Operations , where AI can optimise and transform business 
functions (e.g. customer relationship management, finance, human 
resources, legal, sales and marketing, and supply chain management).
  ◼ AI for Science , where the use of AI can accelerate research productivity 
across scientific domains (e.g. drug discovery).
  ◼ Foundational AI , where scientific advancements are still needed to 
improve AI’s abilities. For a start, we will double down on three specific 
themes – Reasoning AI , Resource-Efficient AI , and Responsible AI 3 – with 
a view to making AI less costly, more widely-used, and most importantly, 
trusted.
3 Reasoning AI  improves AI systems’ ability to understand logical and physical concepts, and 
explain their output; Resource-efficient AI can help reduce AI’s growing reliance on data and 
compute, while still ensuring performance gains; Responsible AI is critical to mitigate the risks of 
AI and ensure that AI is trustworthy, safe, and secure. 

--- Page 21 ---
SYSTEM 1: ACTIVITY DRIVERS | 19
* E.g. customer relationship management, finance, human resources, legal, sales and marketing, and supply chain. 

--- Page 22 ---
| SYSTEM 1: ACTIVITY DRIVERS 20
Singapore’s knowledge-intensive economy is especially exposed to AI. Our 
industries and enterprises need to be responsive, and ready to create AI-driven 
opportunities that will strengthen Singapore’s economic competitiveness. This 
will help workers and industries set the pace and shape their own future, rather 
than face untimely disruption.
Many companies have already embarked on AI-enabled innovation projects, 
which are often focused on the Application layer. While these are useful and have 
made a difference, there is scope for us to go further. Deep and transformative 
AI innovation today increasingly requires integrated capabilities from across the 
entire technology stack (i.e. including Model and Infrastructure layers). There 
must also be a stronger nexus between sophisticated end-users and leading-
edge AI innovators and producers.
To anchor transformative AI innovation and value creation in Singapore, the 
Government has a key role in curating the right incentives (e.g. targeted grants), 
resources (e.g. compute and talent), regulatory frameworks, and partners. For 
a start, we will adopt a sector-specific, use case-centric approach, and we will 
focus our initial efforts on Leading Economic Sectors assessed to be most ready 
for AI-driven transformation.
Done well, we will have a thriving industry ecosystem in Singapore, with significant 
value creation from AI, and capabilities across the AI technology stack . AI will 
complement our workforce, boost our productivity, and be a differentiating factor 
in attracting best-in-class companies to Singapore. We will also seed a virtuous 
cycle where industry end-users can tap into a dense network of AI producers, who 
in turn are motivated by the presence of strong, industry-relevant lead demand 
and product mandates.ENABLER 1
Industry

--- Page 23 ---
SYSTEM 1: ACTIVITY DRIVERS | 21
Anchor new AI Centres of Excellence (CoEs) across 
companies, and explore establishing Sectoral AI CoEs 
to drive sophisticated AI value creation and usage in 
key sectorsAction 1
We will attract and anchor new AI CoEs in Singapore-based companies that are 
leading-edge producers (e.g. technology companies, start-ups) and sophisticated 
end-users, in order to conduct value creation activities across the AI stack . These 
AI CoEs will (a) concentrate and deepen companies’ innovation capabilities across 
the AI stack; (b) own core AI product charters and functions; and (c) align with 
the peaks of excellence that Singapore aims to build. Their roles could include 
creating new intellectual property, products, and services, beyond optimising 
business processes.
In addition, we will explore establishing a new model of Sectoral AI CoEs to 
intensify sophisticated AI value creation and usage in selected economic sectors . 
We will work with Industry Champions4 to identify sector use cases and crowd in 
a broader base of researchers and companies in the sector.
4 Industry Champions refer to enterprise leaders that can form lead demand for AI solutions, 
boost their sector’s competitiveness, uplift the capabilities of their supply chains, and generate 
spin-offs for the broader sector ecosystem.

--- Page 24 ---
| SYSTEM 1: ACTIVITY DRIVERS 22
American Express Decision Science CoEFeature  Story
In December 2022, American Express set up a Decision 
Science CoE in Singapore focusing on data science 
applications in the areas of credit and fraud risk model 
development using AI, Machine Learning (ML), and 
natural language processing (NLP). American Express 
expanded the CoE in November 2023 to also use AI and 
ML to optimise its customer marketing and service, and 
create personalised and relevant experiences across 
digital channels. The CoE will also create a Generative 
AI R&D practice focused on new AI applications for 
servicing, risk, and technology.Jacqueline Poh , Managing Director, Economic 
Development Board (EDB) and Anna Marrs , 
Group President, Global Commercial Services 
and Credit & Fraud Risk, American Express at 
the official opening of the American Express 
Decision Science Center of Excellence.
(Photo credit: American Express)

--- Page 25 ---
SYSTEM 1: ACTIVITY DRIVERS | 23
Strengthen our AI start-up ecosystem, including 
attracting AI-focused accelerator programmes to spur 
rapid AI experimentationAction 2
In concert with private sector partners, we will strengthen the AI start-up 
ecosystem along several pillars. This includes attracting more venture builders 
and developing more accelerator programmes . We want to speed up AI value 
discovery across industry, and nurture a pipeline of disruptive, AI-native start-ups. 
These accelerator programmes could be led by a mix of big technology companies 
and venture capital firms. They will provide the capital, business and technical 
expertise, infrastructure, and market networks to spur rapid AI experimentation. 
We will nurture globally-oriented AI innovators to create intellectual property 
and scale to more markets.

--- Page 26 ---
| SYSTEM 1: ACTIVITY DRIVERS 24
The Government is committed to the continuous improvement of public service 
delivery for our people and businesses. We will harness AI to serve the public in 
more impactful ways .ENABLER 2
Government
OneService ChatbotFeature  Story
The Municipal Services Office and the Government Technology Agency (GovTech) launched 
the OneService chatbot to enable citizens to lodge complaints and provide information 
on them via commonly used social messaging apps (i.e. WhatsApp and Telegram).
Powered by AI, the chatbot can (a) automatically identify and classify complaints into the 
appropriate category (e.g. litter, illegal parking), (b) extract the relevant details of the 
incident that need attention, and (c) identify and inform the relevant Government agency 
to follow up on the case.
With this, citizens can easily provide municipal feedback without having to figure out 
which agency they should contact. Agencies can also attend to cases more quickly.
We also recognise the positive spin-offs from such efforts. These include providing 
lead demand for commercial AI tools, demonstrating AI-led transformation for 
the rest of the economy and society, spurring private sector investment in AI, and 
mainstreaming AI adoption.


--- Page 27 ---
SYSTEM 1: ACTIVITY DRIVERS | 25
For the Government to better harness AI, we need to:
 ▶ Develop, deploy, and integrate more useful and powerful AI-enabled products . 
These include customised or commercial off-the-shelf solutions. They can 
support the Government’s needs, both general (e.g. smart transcription 
tools for citizen support services) and specialised (e.g. detecting anomalies 
in financial statements and transactions to assist anti-money laundering 
efforts).
 ▶ Drive mass awareness and adoption of AI across the Public Service . This 
will encourage public officers to use AI-enabled products and services 
confidently, for more efficient and effective public service delivery.
 ▶ Work with industry and the public to better identify use cases and address 
pain points using AI . This can be done through well-structured ideathons, 
hackathons, and incubator programmes.
Feature  Story
Pair is a Large Language Model (LLM)-powered suite of tools for Government officers 
that allows the safe and secure use of LLMs within the Government’s IT systems. Its base 
capabilities include ideation, drafting, text and natural language processing, coding, and 
data analysis, making it a versatile tool for various tasks that public officers commonly 
undertake.
Pair Chat is the first application to be developed within the suite. It functions on a 
question-and-answer format, powered by the same LLMs underlying ChatGPT. Thousands 
of public servants regularly access Pair Chat to increase their productivity at work.Pair


--- Page 28 ---
| SYSTEM 1: ACTIVITY DRIVERS 26
Improve Public Service productivity, with new value 
propositions for our citizensAction 3
The Government will accelerate public sector adoption of AI to unlock new value 
propositions for our people and businesses . This will take place at two levels:
 ▶ Smart Nation Priorities . Government agencies equipped with the specialised 
knowledge, technical capabilities, and regulatory tools for these domains 
(e.g. Healthcare and Education) will develop and lead sector-specific AI 
strategies, to address the needs and challenges of these domains.
 ▶ Whole-of-Government functional domains . These include Finance, Human 
Resources, and Service Delivery, which are key to transforming government 
processes and services for the better. All Government agencies that lead 
such functions will identify and optimise specific business lines with AI, and 
build internal capabilities to deliver business outcomes.
The Government will coordinate the resources needed to support public sector AI 
adoption . For example, through central funding to support or scale-up novel and 
impactful use cases, facilitating cross-agency data sharing , providing access to 
high-performance compute and associated engineering capabilities (e.g. through 
AI Trailblazers), and issuing facilitative policy guidelines .
We will also uplift the AI literacy baseline and sharpen the AI proficiency of all 
public officers . We will develop and roll out targeted courses to impart AI skills, 
for different public sector workforce segments (e.g. senior management, policy, 
and operational roles).

--- Page 29 ---
SYSTEM 1: ACTIVITY DRIVERS | 27
A strong community of scientists and researchers contributes to a vibrant AI 
ecosystem in Singapore .
 ▶ They add to our overall technical heft , making us attractive to other top 
researchers, investors, and entrepreneurs, to create new value in AI. This can 
generate other economic spin-offs, such as the creation of well-paying jobs, 
start-up growth, and sophisticated venture capital investments.
 ▶ Their research breakthroughs can also translate into commercial products , 
which can be used by our companies and across government agencies to 
realise better outcomes.
 ▶ Their presence helps secure an enduring competitive advantage in AI for 
Singapore . Over the last few decades, innovators in Silicon Valley and other 
AI research hubs (e.g. Beijing, Boston, Montreal, Seattle, and Toronto) have 
led these places’ technological prowess. Singapore will similarly need strong 
research credentials.
Singapore will take a pragmatic yet bold approach to building up and sustaining 
our leadership in select areas of AI research .ENABLER 3
Research

--- Page 30 ---
| SYSTEM 1: ACTIVITY DRIVERS 28
Update national AI R&D plans to sustain leadership in 
select research areasAction 4
We intend to update our national AI R&D plans in five ways: Research Priorities, 
Industry-Academia Nexus, Talent, Compute, and International Collaborations .
 ▶ Research Priorities . To optimise our limited resources for impact, we will 
be selective in our AI research priorities, and align them to the peaks of 
excellence that Singapore hopes to build.
 ▶ Industry-Academia Nexus . We will foster more R&D collaboration between 
academia and industry, capitalising on the growing porosity of talent and 
innovation activities across the two spheres.

--- Page 31 ---
SYSTEM 1: ACTIVITY DRIVERS | 29
AISG’s 100 Experiments programmeFeature  Story
100 Experiments (100E) is AISG’s flagship programme, aimed at solving AI problem 
statements proposed by industry where no commercial off-the-shelf AI solutions exist.
As part of this, AISG helps pair companies with public researchers to develop AI solutions 
that address the former’s problem statement, and provides co-funding of up to S$330,000 
per project.
Several companies, from a range of sectors, have participated in the 100E programme.
One example is Q&M Dental Group’s EM2AI, which worked with AISG to create an AI model 
that helps dentists review X-ray images to detect disease, present findings as dental 
charts, and recommend appropriate treatment plans. Q&M Dental Group has deployed 
this model across more than 150 clinics in Singapore and Malaysia.
Another example is Tencent’s Lightspeed Studios, a globally-leading game developer that 
published games like PUBG Mobile. Under the project, Lightspeed Studios partnered AISG 
to develop a text-to-speech system to support the narration of game storylines, so that 
gamers who speak Malay can experience the games in their native language.
Through 100E, Q&M Dental Group’s EM2AI has developed an AI 
model that helps dentists, and has deployed this across its clinics in 
Singapore and Malaysia.
(Photo credit: Q&M Dental Group)Through 100E, LightSpeed Studios  is partnering with AISG to 
develop a new text-to-speech system for gamers.

--- Page 32 ---
| SYSTEM 1: ACTIVITY DRIVERS 30
 ▶ Talent. We will strengthen efforts to recruit top AI researchers to work from 
and with Singapore (see Action 5).
 ▶ Compute. We will secure access, and operate Graphics Processing Units (GPUs) 
for Singapore’s research community. This will also build up Singapore’s 
infrastructure engineering expertise.
 ▶ International Collaboration. We will expand international research 
collaboration in areas aligned with our research priorities. This could take 
the form of joint grant calls or PhD training programmes with other countries, 
or involvement in international conferences. This will allow Singapore to 
level up our current capabilities by working with the best in the world and 
make a meaningful contribution to global AI development.
Singapore-Republic of Korea Joint Grant Call for AI ResearchFeature  Story
In February 2023, AISG and the Republic of Korea (ROK)’s Institute for Information & 
Communication Technology Planning and Evaluation (IITP) launched a joint grant call to 
fund research on AI-based net-zero energy building management optimisation systems.
This grant call supported a research project between Nanyang Technological University 
and Korea University, to study AI-based energy management and optimisation frameworks, 
to enhance the energy efficiency of Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) 
systems. The project also drew in industry partners from both countries.

--- Page 33 ---
SYSTEM 1: ACTIVITY DRIVERS | 31
Singapore Conference on AIFeature  Story
In December 2023, MCI and Smart Nation Group convened the inaugural Singapore 
Conference on AI (SCAI), to bring together a select group of top AI researchers to discuss 
and articulate the top research problems of AI research, development, and deployment 
that, if solved, would allow humans and society to flourish.
Over 40 local and overseas experts from academia, non-profit, industry 
and government gathered in Singapore for SCAI .SCAI participants identifying a list of critical questions that need to 
be addressed to realise AI’s full potential.

--- Page 35 ---
SYSTEM 2: PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES | 33
People & 
CommunitiesSYSTEM 2
Tight-knit knowledge communities are critical for AI innovation , driving the 
exchange of ideas and expertise for research, product development, and 
the impactful use of AI. Singapore must be home to exemplary AI Creators, 
Practitioners, and Users. We must:
 ▶ Attract, anchor, and develop more AI Creators  (top-tier AI talent) from industry 
and academia to work with and from Singapore, to generate cutting-edge AI 
research and drive novel use cases.
 ▶ Increase the number of AI Practitioners  (tech workers) with the skillsets 
to create, implement and deploy AI systems, models, and algorithms in 
organisations, at scale.
 ▶ Build up a base of confident AI Users (enterprises and general workforce) 
that are equipped to use AI-powered products and services to increase 
productivity, and pursue better jobs and more impactful work.
 ▶ Accelerate the exchange of ideas , both within our local AI community of 
Creators, Practitioners, and Users, and across global networks.

--- Page 36 ---
| SYSTEM 2: PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES 34
Singapore will expand the pool and raise the quality of our AI Creators and 
Practitioners , to accelerate AI innovation and support AI Activity Drivers.
 
 ▶ We must increase the number and diversity of AI Creators working from 
and with Singapore, to drive leading-edge R&D activities and product 
development.
 ▶ We must also boost our pipeline of AI Practitioners. They are critical to 
supporting top-tier AI activity, translating innovation into products and 
services, and transforming our industries.ENABLER 4
Talent

--- Page 37 ---
SYSTEM 2: PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES | 35
Attract world’s top AI Creators to work from and with 
SingaporeAction 5
Singapore will engage and attract world-class AI Creators , from both the public 
research and industry spheres, to deepen their innovation activities here. We will:
 ▶ Set up a dedicated team to identify, engage, and anchor AI Creators . This team 
will be the primary interface to facilitate the integration of AI Creators into 
the Singapore ecosystem, including through bespoke support mechanisms.
 ▶ Create novel value propositions to attract AI Creators . We will intensify 
local AI development activities and induct international experts into our 
AI ecosystem to create the building blocks for success. We will explore 
possible modalities for doing so, such as hybrid Singapore-overseas working 
arrangements, part-time appointments across industry and academia, and 
partnerships with international research institutions or companies.

--- Page 38 ---
| SYSTEM 2: PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES 36
Boost AI Practitioner pool to 15,000Action 6
Singapore will boost the pool of AI Practitioners to support growing AI demand , 
by:
 
 ▶ Scaling up AI-specific training programmes . We will re-design the AI 
Apprenticeship Programme (AIAP)5 to significantly increase the number of 
apprentices we can train annually. We will also work with industry AI product 
development teams to expand the number of company attachments for our 
Continuing Education and Training programmes.
 ▶ Scaling up technology and AI talent pipelines , through Pre-Employment 
Training and by reskilling and upskilling workers through Continuing 
Education and Training.
 ▶ Remaining open to global tech talent . We will continue to welcome global AI 
talent to work and live in Singapore, and contribute to our national efforts.
5 The AIAP is currently designed as a 9-month, full-time, deep-skilling company-led training 
programme, that helps trainees acquire AI capabilities by working alongside industry teams on 
real business problems. 

--- Page 39 ---
SYSTEM 2: PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES | 37
TechSkills AcceleratorFeature  Story
Driven by IMDA, in collaboration with industry, SkillsFuture Singapore (SSG), Workforce 
Singapore (WSG), and the National Trades Union Congress (NTUC), the TechSkills Accelerator 
(TeSA) aims to build and develop a skilled Information and Communications Technology 
workforce, which includes AI talent. Through Company-Led Training Programmes and 
Career Conversion Programmes, amongst others, TeSA has partnered industry to train 
individuals in AI and Data Analytics, with more than 2,700 individuals placed in good jobs 
thus far.

--- Page 40 ---
| SYSTEM 2: PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES 38
It is important to uplift the AI capabilities of our industries and workforce , to 
enable our enterprises and workers to reap the benefits of AI, and minimise its 
disruptive effects.
 ▶ AI has the potential to help enterprises increase their productivity and stay 
relevant , provided they have the capabilities to apply it well.
 ▶ Workers must also be equipped with the necessary skillsets to utilise AI 
tools , so that they can increase their productivity, avoid untimely disruptions 
to their jobs, and help enterprises optimise their operations and improve 
their competitiveness.
While all economies must prepare for AI disruptions, we believe that Singapore 
is well-placed to navigate them . Singaporeans have persistently demonstrated 
resilience and adaptability in the face of change, and the Government has a 
strong track record of managing such nation-wide transitions, whether structural 
or cyclical, through our policies and outreach. We will build upon our existing 
toolkits, schemes, and training programmes, to empower enterprises and workers 
to adopt AI and stay ahead of the curve.ENABLER 5
Capabilities

--- Page 41 ---
SYSTEM 2: PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES | 39
Intensify enterprise AI adoption for industry 
transformationAction 7
Singapore will intensify the promotion of AI adoption across all enterprises .
 ▶ We have made available tools that enterprises can use to evaluate their 
readiness to adopt AI . For example, self-assessment tools like AISG’s AI 
Readiness Index (AIRI) are useful in helping companies identify and map out 
the capabilities and infrastructure they need for using AI.
 ▶ We will promote baseline digital adoption for our enterprises and enhance 
the enterprise digitalisation toolkit, to support more sophisticated AI 
adoption . Businesses’ first interactions with AI often happen through their 
existing enterprise solutions. Only after they have had the foundational 
capabilities in place, and are convinced of AI’s benefits, do they then turn 
to more advanced or bespoke AI business solutions. Through programmes 
like SMEs Go Digital and CTO-as-a-Service (CTOaaS), the Government has 
helped businesses gain awareness of suitable AI-enabled solutions. We have 
also encouraged the adoption of sector-relevant AI solutions, through our 
refreshed Industry Digital Plans (IDPs).
 ▶ For more digitally mature enterprises, we will provide tailored support for 
AI-enabled business transformation . This includes leveraging IMDA and 
EnterpriseSG’s Digital Leaders Programme (DLP), which helps companies 
build in-house digital capabilities, as well as the scoping of impactful AI 
projects in partnership with AI solution providers.
 

--- Page 42 ---
| SYSTEM 2: PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES 40
Upskill workforce through sector-specific AI training 
programmesAction 8
To help workers acquire the necessary skillsets to work with AI, Industry 
Transformation Map (ITM)6 Sector Leads will develop targeted interventions 
for their sectoral workforce . AI has multiple applications in different contexts, 
and ITM Sector Leads are best placed to size the potential impact of AI on their 
respective industries, and by extension their workforce. Sector Leads can ride 
on existing frameworks like the Jobs Transformation Maps (JTMs) to identify the 
relevant skillsets needed, and develop appropriate training programmes for AI 
upskilling and reskilling.
 
6 ITMs are roadmaps developed for 23 industries under six clusters to systematically raise 
productivity, develop skills, drive innovation, and promote internationalisation, so as to catalyse 
transformation. ITMs will be refined over time to ensure relevance.

--- Page 43 ---
SYSTEM 2: PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES | 41
Jobs Transformation MapsFeature  Story
JTMs provide detailed insights on the impact of technology and automation on sectors 
and their workforce. They identify key technologies that are driving change, and their 
impact on individual job roles. As existing job roles evolve and new job roles emerge, JTMs 
also identify the pathways for employers to transform jobs and for workers to acquire 
requisite skills. JTMs serve as a useful compass for employers and workers to prepare 
themselves for the future of work as technology becomes more pervasive in their sectors.
 
One example is the Financial Services JTM, which studied the impact of AI, advanced 
analytics, and automation on jobs and skills in the Financial Services sector in 2019. The 
JTM helped prioritise the industry’s efforts to reskill and redeploy employees in segments 
that were identified as likely to experience significant changes, such as consumer banking, 
insurance, and operations.
MAS and the Institute of Banking & Finance, with support from WSG, will be studying how 
Generative AI will transform the financial sector, including where Generative AI might be 
deployed, and by when. This will further inform our understanding of how Generative AI 
will impact jobs in the sector, and provide advice on how the workforce should upskill and 
reskill to perform new and augmented roles.

--- Page 44 ---
| SYSTEM 2: PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES 42
In a vibrant ecosystem, diverse talent can readily connect with one another 
and forge meaningful partnerships . There are many talented AI Creators and 
Practitioners today, with good ideas that can expand the frontier of AI. The 
opportunity to spar and collaborate with like-minded peers can enrich these ideas, 
and accelerate the translation into products and new value. Such synergies are 
seen in global AI hubs such as San Francisco, where stakeholders working across 
all parts of the AI ecosystem are found in close proximity, and the vibrancy of the 
community in turn attracts the participation of even more talented individuals, 
companies, and capital.
To realise similar benefits, Singapore intends to provide more platforms which 
can bring our AI community together . We want to engage with more of our talent 
pool, and connect them to global AI experts for greater opportunities to interact 
and collaborate. Over time, we hope these connections will create a sense of 
identity and fraternity, and build up a broader Singapore AI community that can 
attest to the support and inspiration that this network provides.ENABLER 6
Placemaking

--- Page 45 ---
SYSTEM 2: PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES | 43
Establish an iconic AI site to co-locate AI creators 
and practitioners, and nurture the AI community in 
SingaporeAction 9
Singapore will establish a dedicated physical place for AI in Singapore . This will 
be a focal point for our community of AI Creators and Practitioners to form new 
connections and spark new ideas:
 ▶ This place will serve as an intellectual home for both Singapore-based 
individuals and visiting colleagues . We will welcome entrepreneurs, 
researchers, engineers, apprentices, and students, who are passionate about 
AI and share our mission orientation, to this place. There, we will include a 
variety of purpose-built spaces aimed at building up a sense of community 
and accelerating the exchange of ideas. We will co-create this place in close 
consultation with AI ecosystem representatives.

--- Page 46 ---
| SYSTEM 2: PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES 44
RAISE.SG
Singapore organised the inaugural RAISE.SG in July 2023, gathering 27 Singapore-linked AI 
Creators and Practitioners (from across academia, industry, and non-profit organisations, 
based locally and overseas), to discuss how Singapore could prepare and invest for the 
next bound of our AI journey.
The inaugural RAISE.SG gathered a diverse collection of 
Singapore-linked AI Creators and Practitioners, to ex -
change ideas on the next bound of Singapore’s AI journey.
RAISE.SG participants also interacted with representa -
tives from the local AI community, including through com -
munity-building events which drew in start-up founders,  
investors, and government agencies.

--- Page 47 ---
SYSTEM 2: PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES | 45
Participants emphasised the need to nurture a strong, tight-knit AI community in 
Singapore , concentrating community activities in a focal site to increase opportunities 
for interactions and the meaningful exchange of ideas. They suggested that this site be:
 ▶ Supported by a full calendar of AI-related programming , including community-run 
events such as hackathons, demo days, guest lectures, seminars, and social functions, 
which create opportunities to build relationships across the community.
 ▶ Enhanced with a “digital community” layer , to enable online collaborations and 
remote participation in community events by Singapore-linked AI talent who are 
not physically based in Singapore. Through such virtual interactions, the local 
AI community can connect more frequently, including with other AI innovation 
communities elsewhere.
The Government will explore such suggestions and other ways to support efforts that 
strengthen our AI community. For instance, we will work with industry and public research 
partners to organise more AI-related events, and increase the cadence of AI community 
networking events such as the ongoing Neural Networking series. Building on the inaugural 
RAISE.SG, we will organise regular gatherings of AI experts with a Singapore nexus, as well 
as arrange engagements with prominent foreign-based AI experts and practitioners who 
visit Singapore.Feature  Story

--- Page 49 ---
SYSTEM 3: INFRASTRUCTURE & ENVIRONMENT | 47
Infrastructure & 
EnvironmentSYSTEM 3
Successful AI value creation requires robust and conducive infrastructure and a 
facilitative environment , where all stages of the AI life cycle are well supported, 
and everything works the way it should.
For Singapore, this will involve:
 ▶ Availing compute and data for AI innovation . These are important building 
blocks to serve our AI ambitions.
 ▶ A trusted environment where AI-enabled innovations and systems are robust 
and safe , so that our people can engage with AI with confidence.
 ▶ Safeguarding Singapore’s AI interests in the international arena . We hope to 
participate in shaping the international rules of the road that are emerging 
around AI.

--- Page 50 ---
| SYSTEM 3: INFRASTRUCTURE & ENVIRONMENT 48
The increasing scale and proliferation of AI models have driven exponential 
growth in demand for chips that can support AI workloads (compute), such as 
GPUs . However, GPUs are in short supply, and we face intense global competition 
to access them. In addition, the resource-intensive nature of AI workloads requires 
adequate and sustainable infrastructure capacity, which we have to prepare for.
To support high value AI activities, Singapore must ensure reliable, localised 
access to high-performance compute , so that industry, academia, and the 
Government have the means to innovate and build here.
 ▶ Careful management is needed, as this infrastructure will take up significant 
power, carbon, water, and land, all of which are limited in Singapore.
 ▶ While most of the compute supply is expected to go toward industry use, we 
will direct a small proportion towards meritorious use cases that build up 
our local research and industry capabilities, or are in service of the Public 
Good.
We will also work with sustainability leaders in this space , to help Singapore 
achieve our AI ambitions while meeting our sustainability goals.ENABLER 7
Compute

--- Page 51 ---
SYSTEM 3: INFRASTRUCTURE & ENVIRONMENT | 49
Significantly increase high-performance compute 
available in SingaporeAction 10
We will actively crowd in a significant amount of compute to Singapore  to support 
our growing AI needs, especially in areas of national interest. To this end, we will:
 ▶ Deepen our substantive partnerships with major compute players , ranging 
from chipmakers to Cloud Service Providers (CSPs), to secure local access to 
compute capacity.
 ▶ Support Singapore-based compute with the required resource envelope . 
We will ensure that there is sufficient carbon budget and power allocated 
to support data centres, that house GPUs or their equivalents, to process 
AI workloads in the near term. In the medium to longer term, we will chart 
a roadmap towards the growth of net-zero, green data centres that are 
powered by renewable energy. This includes continued collaborations with 
industry on innovative proposals to push the sustainability envelope.
 ▶ Manage a small subset of Singapore-based GPUs or their equivalent , to 
support meritorious use cases for capability building, innovation, and the 
Public Good.

--- Page 52 ---
| SYSTEM 3: INFRASTRUCTURE & ENVIRONMENT 50
AI activity is built upon confident, reliable access to high-quality, relevant 
datasets . Data remains one of the essential factors of production for AI.
Today, there are more avenues for AI development to overcome the traditional 
obstacles of data availability and access. The open-source movement has made 
large quantities of data available, while private sector data marketplaces also 
facilitate the commercial trading of datasets. Meanwhile, it has become easier 
to create and augment structured datasets for AI, including through the use of 
synthetic data.
National efforts to maximise value from data should therefore pivot away 
from access and availability, to address other emerging factors . These include 
improving the quality of datasets, and ensuring that data use for AI development 
is context-appropriate and operates within trusted data sharing frameworks. We 
are also keen to make more government datasets available to solve AI problems 
of high national priority. Done well, we will demonstrate to AI developers that 
Singapore is a conducive place for responsible AI development.
 ▶ We want to uncover and avail more good data that AI Activity Drivers can 
leverage . While Singapore may not have the biggest datasets where size of 
population is the key determinant, the breadth and depth of our economic 
base suggest that meaningful datasets can still be mined to generate useful 
insights and derive new value.ENABLER 8
Data


--- Page 53 ---
SYSTEM 3: INFRASTRUCTURE & ENVIRONMENT | 51
 ▶ Singapore should continue to lean forward to support industry efforts to 
employ data for AI . Importantly, given increased concerns around data 
security, we should invest in Privacy-Enhancing Technologies (PETs), and 
other novel approaches that can address barriers around data protection 
and sharing, to encourage more data flows.
 ▶ The Government should also support the data needs of meritorious use 
cases that serve the Public Good, particularly if these are aligned with our 
national priorities but are not commercially attractive . This will ensure that 
such projects do not fall through the cracks.

--- Page 54 ---
| SYSTEM 3: INFRASTRUCTURE & ENVIRONMENT 52
Build capabilities in data services and Privacy-
Enhancing TechnologiesAction 11
Singapore will build up our data management capabilities  so that more of us 
can store, manage, share, and govern the data that we have, enabling us to draw 
new insights and uncover more value. To do so, we will need to harness new 
technologies that will enable safe and trusted data sharing, and grow more 
capabilities to do so at scale.
 ▶ We will develop capabilities in PETs . PETs enable businesses to access other 
datasets in a privacy-preserving manner, hence extending the pool of data 
from which they can derive insights. The Government will support research 
and development for PETs, especially in targeted areas like synthetic 
data generation, data annotation, federated learning, and homomorphic 
encryption, and expand practical measures like regulatory sandboxes and 
guidelines to promote experimentation with PETs.
PET SandboxFeature  Story
To facilitate industry experimentation with PETs, IMDA launched Singapore’s first PET 
Sandbox in July 2022, to provide opportunities for companies to work with trusted PET 
solution providers to develop use cases and pilot PETs. This recognises that PETs are still 
in their infancy, and there is much to learn about using them in a real-world environment.
The PET Sandbox matchmakes use case owners to a panel of PET digital solution providers, 
provides grant support to user companies to scope and implement pilot projects, and 
provides regulatory support to ensure that the deployment of PETs meets compliance 
guidelines.

--- Page 55 ---
SYSTEM 3: INFRASTRUCTURE & ENVIRONMENT | 53
Unlock Government data for use cases that serve the 
Public GoodAction 12
Singapore will selectively unlock more public sector data for AI development 
that serves the Public Good . We will assess the feasibility of setting up a “data 
concierge” within the Government, to engage AI Activity Drivers and Creators, 
and identify and facilitate access to the datasets that they require for their AI 
development activities.
 ▶ For public sector  datasets, the data concierge will help AI Activity Drivers and 
Creators discover and obtain access to appropriate public sector datasets. 
Where these are not already open-access, the data concierge will help unlock 
closed datasets through brokering data sharing agreements. It could also 
work upstream with agencies to collect data based on the client’s needs. 
This will be underpinned by a data-sharing evaluation framework that takes 
the “Public Good” dimension into account.
 ▶ For private sector  datasets, the Government can consider stepping in for 
selected high-value use cases where we can play a catalytic role. In such 
cases, the data concierge can explore facilitating handshakes between 
private industry entities as a trusted intermediary, to aggregate and produce 
data derivatives.
We will continue our thought leadership around the progressive use of data 
for AI development , such as advocating for trusted cross-border data flows and 
providing guidelines to businesses to educate and facilitate greater data use.

--- Page 56 ---
| SYSTEM 3: INFRASTRUCTURE & ENVIRONMENT 54
Trust and safety underwrite confidence in Singapore’s AI landscape . They lie at 
the heart of our interventions to deliver AI for the Public Good.
 ▶ We will endeavour for AI to be developed and deployed in a safe, trustworthy, 
and responsible manner . The Government will institutionalise appropriate 
governance and security frameworks for AI systems. The ultimate aim is to 
establish a trusted environment for AI, where people can have the confidence 
that their interests are protected when interacting with AI.
 ▶ We must retain agility in our regulatory approaches . AI will continue to 
evolve, and no party has full sight of the risks that might emerge. It is 
only through experimentation and exploration that the AI community can 
deepen its understanding of AI, and discover and address potential risks. 
The Government must therefore take a pragmatic approach – supporting 
experimentation and innovation, while still ensuring that AI is developed 
and used responsibly, in line with the rule of law and the safeguards we have 
put in place. Where existing regulatory frameworks need to be updated, we 
will do so thoughtfully and in concert with others, accounting for the global 
nature of AI.ENABLER 9
Trusted Environment

--- Page 57 ---
SYSTEM 3: INFRASTRUCTURE & ENVIRONMENT | 55
There is a range of potential risks around AI , spanning from concerns around 
model quality and fair use, to fears around the loss of control and existential 
risks. Singapore remains open to engaging with all perspectives, to enhance our 
understanding of the risk landscape and to inform our most urgent priorities for 
risk mitigation. For a start:
 ▶ We must ensure that AI systems are well-developed, reliable, and resilient . 
This requires paying close attention to the model development process, to 
ensure that the output of models is not biased, inaccurate, or erroneous. 
AI models should also be aligned with the appropriate set of human and 
cultural values. Existing international conversations around AI governance 
and safety are largely centred on these concerns.
 ▶ We must prevent AI models from being used in malicious or harmful ways, 
and secure them against adversarial attacks . If AI is used carelessly, it can 
potentially amplify negative outcomes like discrimination, anti-competitive 
behaviours, or intellectual property infringement. It can also be deliberately 
misused against us, to supercharge existing threats (e.g. scams, cyber-
attacks, and mis/disinformation) in terms of scale, speed, and sophistication. 
We must remain vigilant against these risks to maintain digital trust.
The Government will take differentiated approaches to managing risks to and 
from AI , ranging from regulatory moves to voluntary guidelines, recognising that 
AI will continue to evolve. We will need a deeper understanding of how AI works, 
what benchmarks to use, and what testing is appropriate, and we look forward to 
developing these perspectives together with other stakeholders.

--- Page 58 ---
| SYSTEM 3: INFRASTRUCTURE & ENVIRONMENT 56
Ensure fit-for-purpose regulatory environment for AIAction 13
The Government will continue to maintain a regulatory environment for AI that is 
pro-innovation while ensuring appropriate guardrails . We will:
 ▶ Update AI governance frameworks to address novel risks . We will regularly 
review and adjust frameworks like the Model AI Governance Framework 
and AI Verify to reflect emerging principles, concerns, and technological 
developments (e.g. Generative AI). As part of this, it will be important to 
establish clear responsibilities for actors across the AI supply chain. This 
baseline guidance will give clarity to AI developers and users on how to be 
responsible in the design and use of AI.
AI VerifyFeature  Story
AI Verify is an AI governance testing framework and software toolkit developed by IMDA. 
The testing framework consists of 11 AI ethics principles which are consistent with 
internationally recognised frameworks around the world. AI Verify helps organisations 
validate the performance of their AI systems against these principles through standardised 
tests. IMDA first released AI Verify in May 2022 for an international pilot.
In June 2023, IMDA also set up the AI Verify Foundation to harness the collective power 
and contributions of the global open-source community, in developing AI Verify testing 
tools. The not-for-profit Foundation will boost AI testing capabilities and assurance to 
meet the needs of companies and regulators globally.
Since its launch in June 2023, the AI Verify Foundation  has 
grown to have over 90 corporate members, who work to de -
velop AI testing tools to enable responsible AI.

--- Page 59 ---
SYSTEM 3: INFRASTRUCTURE & ENVIRONMENT | 57
 ▶ Continue working with partners on R&D , particularly around alignment 
and evaluations. We will work with partners to translate guidelines into 
appropriate technical standards, tools, and services that can be practically 
applied. These will also be supported by policy measures including regulatory 
sandboxes, pilots for solutions such as watermarking and model cards, 
and capability development to nurture a domestic Testing, Inspection, and 
Certification (TIC) sector.
 ▶ Design interventions that are risk-based, tiered, and adapted for specific 
vertical sectors and horizontal applications . This recognises that every use 
case carries a different set of considerations and risks, and would therefore 
require different risk thresholds and context-specific risk management 
approaches. For instance, using AI to improve the user experience for video 
games would differ considerably from a use case where AI assists hiring 
managers in selecting potential candidates. To ensure coherence with our 
national position on AI governance, the Government will also establish a 
common platform for regulatory agencies to coordinate on AI developments 
in their sectors, and share best practices when governing AI.
 ▶ Consider updates to broader standards and laws to support effective AI use.
 ▶ Contribute actively to international discourse on AI governance , to raise 
capacity, share best practices, and shape rules around AI, together with the 
international community.
UN High-Level Advisory Body on AIFeature Story
In October 2023, the UN Secretary-General announced the creation of a new multi-
stakeholder High-Level Advisory Body (HLAB) on the risks, opportunities, and international 
governance of AI. The HLAB comprises 39 experts from across UN Member States, and it 
will support the international community’s efforts to govern AI. Dr He Ruimin, the Chief AI 
Officer and Deputy Chief Digital Technology Officer of the Government of Singapore, has 
been selected as one of the members of the HLAB.

--- Page 60 ---
| SYSTEM 3: INFRASTRUCTURE & ENVIRONMENT 58
Raise security and resilience baseline for AIAction 14
The Government will also elevate the security and resilience baseline for all 
system owners using AI .
 ▶ In the short term, we will work with partners to update cybersecurity 
toolkits for enterprises and individual users , to address AI-related risks. 
These include advisories and actionable guidelines on how system owners 
can augment their cybersecurity foundations to enable secure AI adoption.
 ▶ In the longer term, we will also coordinate efforts to share best practices and 
ensure alignment to improve AI security , including through the development 
of standards and solutions for AI security. This will involve working with the 
private sector to co-create technical guidelines and solutions to secure AI use 
cases, and to leverage crowdsourcing initiatives to evaluate risks to AI (e.g. 
joint red teams to test AI systems). Such close partnerships with the private 
sector, including on capacity building and public education programmes, 
will raise baseline AI security capabilities across the ecosystem.

--- Page 61 ---
SYSTEM 3: INFRASTRUCTURE & ENVIRONMENT | 59
Today’s international AI landscape is contested and fragmented .
 ▶ AI has become a major front of competition . Global powers like the US and 
China dominate the global AI landscape in research outcomes, innovation 
capacity, and talent networks. In turn, critical and emerging technologies 
like AI have become a pre-eminent domain for geostrategic contestation.
 ▶ While the international community is working to develop consensus around 
the responsible development and deployment of AI, efforts remain nascent 
at this point . All countries recognise the importance of managing AI well, 
and several have offered ideas on how the international community might 
cooperate on this. It is still early days, and it will take some time before the 
international community converges around any set of agreed principles.ENABLER 10
Leader in  
Thought and Action

--- Page 62 ---
| SYSTEM 3: INFRASTRUCTURE & ENVIRONMENT 60
Nevertheless, it remains critical for Singapore to stay engaged internationally, in a 
multi-party, multi-stakeholder fashion, to work towards a common understanding 
on AI .
 ▶ AI is a technology “without a passport” . Its impact cannot be easily contained 
within any single country. It is therefore crucial for all countries to converge 
on efforts to make AI systems safer, and to avoid AI creating strategic risks 
and instability. This will require all countries to set aside the instincts of 
protectionism, to steer AI as a force for good. Singapore is determined to play 
our part, and we will continue to participate constructively at international 
fora on AI.
 ▶ Such conversations on the trajectory of AI must be inclusive . AI will affect 
and potentially disrupt all of us. It is therefore important to widen the 
conversation, beyond the few who are developing cutting-edge models, 
to take in views from other countries and stakeholders, and build up the 
capacity for meaningful efforts to address AI’s impact.
 ▶ Industry also plays a critical role to shape more responsible AI . We welcome 
ongoing industry-led efforts, including those by leading AI companies, as 
valuable contributions to the broader conversation on how to govern AI 
models better. We look forward to learning together with them.

--- Page 63 ---
SYSTEM 3: INFRASTRUCTURE & ENVIRONMENT | 61
Establish Singapore as an ambitious and pragmatic 
international partner on AI innovation and governanceAction 15
Singapore is committed to being a serious and reliable international partner on 
AI. This is important for sustaining our international position as a trusted hub. 
We will:
 ▶ Continue to grow Singapore’s international networks with key partner 
countries and leading AI companies .
 ▶ Increase international mindshare in practical and risk-based approaches to 
AI. Singapore has gained global attention because of early efforts to integrate 
AI in key sectors such as finance, trade, and healthcare, as well as pragmatic 
Government tools such as Pair. We have developed governance frameworks 
and open-source testing toolkits such as AI Verify. These demonstrate 
Singapore’s commitment to developing and deploying AI well, and we will 
leverage these gains to be a global pace-setter at the forefront of AI.

--- Page 64 ---
| SYSTEM 3: INFRASTRUCTURE & ENVIRONMENT 62
We will contribute to international AI developments by :
 ▶ Anchoring key bilateral relationships with selected partners from government 
and industry , through substantive initiatives and technical cooperation. 
These will allow Singapore to “start small and move quickly”, to establish 
common ground with like-minded partners, as pathfinders to broad-based 
multilateral cooperation.
 ▶ Demonstrating alignment with key international fora and supporting 
worthwhile platforms . Singapore will support and actively participate in 
substantive multilateral, multi-stakeholder, or plurilateral initiatives, that 
seek to achieve an inclusive, practical, and rules-based global environment 
for AI.
 
 ▶ Sharing Singapore’s experience and curating meaningful partnerships for 
capacity building . We will actively profile Singapore’s approaches to AI 
through public engagements and conferences such as Asia Tech x Singapore 
and SCAI. We are the convenor of the Forum of Small States (FOSS)7, which now 
has a digital pillar of engagement. Together with government and industry 
partners, we will develop AI-related capacity building initiatives to benefit 
the 108 members of FOSS.
7 Singapore established FOSS as an informal and non-ideological grouping of small states in 
1992, and has served as its Chair since. FOSS now comprises 108 countries across all geographical 
regions and at all levels of development, and meets several times a year to discuss issues of 
concern to small states. In 2022, we introduced Digital FOSS as a new pillar of engagement within 
FOSS.

--- Page 65 ---
SYSTEM 3: INFRASTRUCTURE & ENVIRONMENT | 63
ATxSG brings together leaders and industry decision-mak -
ers across the global technology ecosystem to discuss the 
latest trends in technologies including AI.Asia Tech x SingaporeFeature Story
Asia Tech x Singapore (ATxSG) is a platform to empower the technology community to 
discuss the latest trends and explore the critical intersections of technology, economy, 
and society. The third edition of ATxSG, organised by IMDA, was held in June 2023, and 
brought together over 17,000 global leaders and industry decision-makers across the 
global technology ecosystem.
A key track of ATxSG is the ATxAI Conference, where thought leaders, industry experts, 
and policy makers from leading AI countries convene and discuss strategic values of AI 
governance and technology trends, as well as showcase real-life implementations of AI. 
64 speakers and over 2,900 attendees from around the world have participated in ATxAI 
over the past three years.

--- Page 67 ---
A WHOLE-OF-NATION MOVEMENT | 65
To realise the broad and transformative impact of AI, we will actively forge multiple 
partnerships across our economy, society, and the world. Singapore’s NAIS 2.0 is 
therefore designed to unfold as a national movement on the global stage.
AI will not only contribute to Singapore’s sustained economic growth and the 
global competitiveness of our industries, it will also create better jobs, a more 
productive labour force, and substantially improve the quality of life for our 
people.
Singapore is ready. We welcome all who share our vision of AI for the Public Good  
to join us on the next bound of our AI adventure.A Whole-of-Nation
Movement

--- Page 68 ---
Published 4 December 2023
Copyright © 2023 
Government of the Republic of Singapore
You may download, view, print, and reproduce this 
document without modification, but only for non-
commercial use. All other rights are reserved.